Philippine National Police chief Dir. Gen. Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa on Friday said the suspect in the killing of a cyclist in Quiapo on Monday night will be getting a "villain's welcome" when he arrives in Manila to face charges.
In a press conference, the PNP announced that Vhon Tanto, who was arrested in Masbate shortly before noon, will be "traveling on escort, by land tonight." flag
He is expected to arrive on Saturday morning at the Manila Police District, where he will face charges of murder and frustrated murder of Mark Vincent Garalde.
Tanto will undergo inquest proceedings when he gets to Manila.
"Pagdating niya du'n bukas ay puntahan natin," Dela Rosa said. "We will give him a villain's welcome. Not a hero's welcome, but a villain's welcome."
He added: "Ang hero's welcome is full of joy, palakpakan, pomps and pedantries... Ang villain's welcome is 'yung nakakamatay na mura, nakakamatay na tingin... Basta 'yung kung puwedeng matunaw na lang siya sa upuan."
Despite the promise of killer looks and words, Dela Rosa said this does not mean a literal death. flag
"Hindi," he replied when asked to clarify his statement. "Non-contact ito. Pero mas masakit 'yun, non-contact."
Dela Rosa, however, noted that he would teach the suspect how to punch.
"Itong si Tanto, tuturuan ko ng boxing kasi mahina siya sa suntukan. Kaya bumunot siya ng baril... Sisiga-siga, mahina naman pala sa suntukan. Tuturuan ko siya ng suntok," he said.
Tanto, an inactive Army reservist,  is the suspect in the killing of Garalde during an altercation along P. Casal Street on Monday night. flag
The 39-year-old was positively identified by witnesses through the pictures on his social media account. The Hyundai Eon seen on the CCTV footage of the incident was traced to him through its conduction sticker.
The footage, which had gone viral on social media, showed Tanto shooting Garalde several times at point blank range after they engaged in a fistfight. A bystander is in critical condition after being hit by a stray bullet.
Tanto's vehicle was later recovered by the police in Nueva Vizcaya, at the house of his brother-in-law.
Police said Tanto owned three firearms and is considered armed and dangerous.
The licenses of his three firearms—a .45 Armscor pistol, .40 cal Glock and .45 cal Norinco—have already been revoked by the PNP. —JST, GMA News
